The exalted sūtra of the Great Vehicle entitled The Prediction [to Buddhahood] Regarding Brahmaśrī
----------
----------
Homage to all Buddhas and Bodhisatvas.
This is what I've heard: Once, the Blessed One was staying at Śrāvastī, in Prince Jeta's Grove, in Anatapiṇḍada's pleasure garden, together with a community of many monks.
Then one morning, the Blessed One put on his upper and lower robes, took his begging bowl and went into the city of Śrāvastī to gather alms.
At that time, outside the city of Śrāvastī, a group of young children who were sitting and playing, making houses, courtyards and castles out of sand, saw the Blessed One approaching in the distance.
When they saw the Blessed One, they were delighted, overjoyed. They continued to sit, playing happily.
Then the Blessed One, out of compassion for the children, went over to them.
Then one of the boys, named Brahmaśrī, payed homage at the feet of the Blessed One, and sat down before him.
Then the Blessed One, although he already knew the answer, asked the children:What are you children doing?
The children answered: Blessed One, we are sitting here and playing, making houses, courtyards and castles out of sand.
Then Brahmaśrī said to him: Blessed One, please accept this sandcastle as a gift, out of compassion for me.
The Blessed One saw that Brahmaśrī's intentions were sincere and that his spirit was joyful, and so out of compassion, he accepted the sandcastle.
Then, at that moment, at that very instant, the sandcastle in front of the Buddha was transformed by his power into a castle made of the seven kinds of jewels.
The castle had 84,000 golden pillars on its eastern side, 84,000 silver pillars on its southern side, 84,000 pillars of baiḍūrya on its western side, and 84,000 pillars of crystal on its northern side.
When the boy Brahmaśrī saw this marvel, he became even more delighted, and great joy arose in him.
Then he broke into verse:
1. O, the Savior of the world Has displayed a magnificent prodigy Out of compassion for me The Buddha has displayed a miracle.
2. The sandcastle That I offered to the Great Sage Has been transformed into jewels O, how inconceivable is the Buddha.
3. O, O, such a field is this. The field of the Buddha is unsurpassed. The blind, those with no vision, and those of little wisdom Cannot conceive of this.
4. The Best of Men is the field for sentient beings. This field has been obtained by me. Having gained this rare opportunity, I plant the seeds of Awakening.
5. O guide, I aspire to develop your qualities. When I have attained Unsurpassed Awakening, I will perform such marvels.
Then the Blessed One smiled, and rays of color blazed from his mouth: blue, yellow, red, white, crimson, crystal and silver.
These rays, having blazed forth, rose as far as the Brahmaloka, returned, circled the Blessed One three times, and vanished into the crown of his head.
Then Ānanda spoke to the Blessed One in verse:
6. The Supreme Conquerors, the Leaders, the Best of Men, Do not smile without reason. Compassionate One, for the benefit the world, Explain to us now why you have smiled.
The Blessed One replied to the Venerable Ānanda: Ānanda, do you see this boy, Brahmaśrī?
He answered: I see him.
The Blessed One said: Ānanda, this boy, because of his aspiration and his roots of virtue, will not go to the hell-realms for 3,200 eons.
When he has attained Awakening, he will become a Tathāgata, an Arhant, a Fully Awakened Buddha named *Sarvalokābhyudgata, "He who has Transcended the Entire World".
The Blessed One then spoke these verses:
7. No small merit is produced by having faith in the Awakened Ones. The same is true of listening to the Supreme Dharma And of honoring the Saṅgha.
8. For one with faith in the Buddha Awakening is not hard to obtain. Therefore those who seek Awakening here Should make offerings to the Guides of the World.
9. Ānanda, this boy will become the Best of Men, A Guide of the World named *Abhyudgata, Glorious One.
10. The Buddhas are inconceivable. So too is their Dharma, And the ripening of the deeds Of those with faith in the inconceivable.
When the Blessed One had pronounced this teaching, the Venerable Ānanda, and the boy Brahmaśrī were delighted, and praised his words highly.
The exalted sūtra of the Great Vehicle entitled The Prediction Regarding Brahmaśrī is completed.
Translated by the Indian preceptor Biśuddhasiṅha and the translator Bande Dge ba dpal; checked and finalized by the Indian preceptor Bidyākarasiṅha and the master editor, the translator Bande Debacandra.